hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
so if you've seen some of our recent
videos the Dell XPS 13 is my top pick
for like the best overall Ultrabook
right now it's a fantastic device but if
you're trying to do things like 4k video
editing or playing some heavier 3d
titles it's going to choke and you kind
of expect it because it's an ultrabook
but Dell recently put out some new
configurations that have the iris 540
chip it's an upgraded graphics chip
let's take a look so these come in an
optional gold color it's a gold anodized
ation on all the exterior metal so the
top surface the bottom surface the
serial number hatch even the screws are
cold they didn't mess around doing this
it uses a new i7 CPU the 6560 U and it
has the iris 540 graphic strip it's
still an integrated chip so the basic
difference is that the iris chip has
double the shader units and some extra
video memory everything else is the same
so the build quality the screens the
ports the keyboard the trackpad that
drives all of these are unchanged the
overall Windows experience is also
unchanged so boot times are about the
same the system responsiveness is still
about the same but the i5 skylake XPS 13
was already really fast when I was doing
some video editing the i-5 in the i7
feel a little different I mean I use
Adobe Premiere and the i7 is still a 2
core chip so it's not a big jump in
performance so render times that have
improved a bit maybe 7 to 10 percent but
playback and editing on the timeline
isn't that different between the two
systems they're both very usable for
1080p footage but for 4k editing it
still isn't smooth enough on the new i7
gaming is noticeably better with the new
iris graphics chip so for lightweight
games at 1080p you can now get over 60
frames per second on lowest graphics
settings but the biggest jump in
playability is for moderately demanding
games so Rainbow six siege was kind of
playable on the i-5 model at 35 to 40
frames per second but now it's closer to
50 frames per second with the iris
graphics and it's just way more
enjoyable to play
the extremely demanding games run better
but it's still not a good experience
overall though it's a noticeable
improvement over the HD 520 not quite as
good as the Nvidia 940 m but it's close
and it's great for an ultrabook under
three pounds fan noise is basically the
same so I kind of thought that with the
higher performing CPU and GPU that the
fans would run louder or more often but
it really doesn't so in one sense it's a
good thing because the XPS 13 has always
been quiet and even with the faster
configuration it stays quiet but by not
having more aggressive cooling the i7
doesn't have that like thermal headroom
to really flex and show off what it can
do so here you can see that when they're
both running heavy benchmarks the i7
model is running hotter than the i5 but
take a look at this the i5 chip can
turbo up to 2.8 gigahertz and after an
hour of benchmarks things are pretty
warm fans are going but it's still close
to its max turbo speed of 2.8 the i7
here can actually turbo higher it can go
up to 3.2 gigahertz but because of
thermal throttling it doesn't now this
is a benchmark that pushes a hundred
percent CPU usage so it's not very
realistic but I wanted to show that
throttling is a little more aggressive
on the i7 than it is on the i5 battery
life also takes a hit with these faster
components on the i-5 with a quad HD
screen at 75 percent brightness I was
getting around 8 hours of normal use on
this new i7 it's like five and a half
six hours so if you really need to have
super long battery life
I'd say skip the i7 or at least take a
look at their battery pack accessory so
this new i7 model only comes in a
high-res display option and that starts
at $1,600 so it's like a two hundred
dollar price bump over the i-5 for the
average person I don't think this
upgrade is necessary for one you're
losing battery life but more importantly
the i5 model is such a great performer
for the dollar you don't really need to
bump up to the i7 unless you're chasing
like the absolute best possible
performance in an ultrabook
especially for light gaming so if you're
into that this is a really good option
otherwise I'd skip it that's the end of
this video hope you guys liked it thumbs
we liked it
subs if you loved it it's been nice